Hello Speakers!

We're thrilled that you've chosen to present at the very first FOSDEM Open Source Search Dev Room! This email will give you some idea of what to expect at the conference, where to find the room where you'll speak, and some tips for success in your presentation.

(This text is adapted from the materials prepared by Jeff Weiss and R. Tyler Croy for the Testing and Automation Dev Room. If you ever decide to host your own Dev Room at FOSDEM, forking their repo to make use of these materials is highly recommended: https://github.com/fosdem-testingautomation/room-materials. Many thanks to Jeff and Tyler for sharing them!)


A LITTLE ABOUT FOSDEM:
----------------------
FOSDEM is very geared towards free and open source projects. It's a great place to talk about open source software, new projects, community efforts, etc. Also, do NOT make sexist or racist jokes in your presentation, or at all really. FOSDEM is a universal and welcoming conference, please be respectful to your fellow hackers.

If you are uncertain whether a particular image, joke, etc. that you'd like to use in your presentation would be appropriate, please contact the Open Source Search Dev Room program committee at opensourcesearch-devroom@lists.fosdem.org. We will be happy to assist by reviewing your materials in advance of the conference.

Please note that we may ask you to stop your presentation and leave the stage if you present materials that are sexist, racist or otherwise derogatory to any person or group. Be kind to your fellow attendees and kind to yourself - keep it real, but keep it clean and respectful. (And reach out to us early and often for help: opensourcesearch-devroom@lists.fosdem.org.)


COMMUNICATION:
--------------
We will set up a mailing list for further communication. I will send further details about it later. This is how we will coordinate and keep everybody informed of what is going on.

You can reach me privately at this email address, or by phone in The Netherlands at $$NUMBER$$. I travel a great deal for work, so email is likely the best way to reach me. I am also on Twitter with handle @lhawthorn, or on Freenode with nick lh.

You can reach the entire program committee at opensourcesearch-devroom@lists.fosdem.org, which is the best way to get in touch up to a week before FOSDEM. 

We're still in the process of confirming our other on-site contacts for the Dev Room, and we'll follow up with their contact details in a later email. 


SCHEDULE:
---------
The devroom will be one day, on January 31, 2015 from 10:30 - 19:00. All talks will take place in S.UA2.114.

We have an extremely tight schedule for the Dev Room, so please arrive at least 20 minutes prior to your session to check in for your presentation. If we don't know that you're in the Dev Room 20 minutes prior to your talk, we'll start sending carrier pigeons and using other means to find you. :)

Talks are scheduled for 45 minutes total. One of the program committee members will introduce you for approximately 1 minute, and you will have the remaining time to speak *and* answer questions. Please use the final 5-10 minutes for Q&A with  the audience.

We don't have a lot of slip room between talks, so as you enter the Q&A period we will be asking the speaker(s) following you to begin setting up to present. In order to help you keep track of time, we will hold up signs with a 10 minute, 5 minute and 2 minute warning to let you know how much time remains for your session. 

If you haven't moved to Q&A by the time we reach the 2 minute warning, we may ask you to take Q&A in the hallway to leave time for the next speaker's session. It's critical that we don't overrun the allotted time for each session, so please keep your remarks timed for 45 minutes total, including time for questions.

We're leaving 5 minutes between talks for speaker set up, but let's do our best not to need the additional buffer. :)

Barring some drastic conflict, the tentative schedule is:

10:30 - 10:35 - Leslie Hawthorn: Welcoming Remarks

10:35 - 11:20 - Vladimir Fedorkov: Sphinx search technical highlights

11:25 - 12:10 - Anna Ohanyan, Christian Ziech: Effective spelling correction with term relation graphs using Lucene FSTs

12:15 - 13:00 - Florian Lautenschlager & Johannes Weigend: Apache Solr as a compressed, scalable and high performance time series database

13:05 - 13:50 - Alex Brasetvik: Elasticsearch from the Bottom Up

14:00 - 14:45 - Uwe Schindler: Apache Lucene 5

14:50 - 15:35 - Alan Woodward & Martin Kleppmann: Searching over Streams with Luwak and Apache Samza

15:40 - 16:25 - Nicola Buso: EBISearch - Biological data search engine

16:30 - 17:15 - Christoph Goller - The Typed Index

17:20 - 18:05 - Gustavo Fernandes - Querying your datagrid with Lucene, Hadoop and Spark

18:05 - 18:50 - Pere Urbon Bayes - ELK, making sense of your data (not just for logs!)

18:50 - 19:00 - Leslie Hawthorn - Closing Remarks

MATERIALS:
----------
If you wish to present using your laptop, that is preferred, but you will be responsible for bringing your *own* VGA adapter cable.

If you do not wish to use your own laptop, you will need to send me a PDF document that I can project from my own laptop. This must be sent to me *before* Friday, January 30, 2015. It's also worthwhile, just in case, to bring your presentation with you on a USB stick in PDF format. 


THE ROOM:
---------
We will be located in S.UA2.114 which has 207 seats. Please keep this in mind when preparing slides or demos, small fonts will be difficult to see!

This room will also be recorded and, I believe, live-streamed. Edited video recordings will be posted to http://video.fosde .org some time after the conference by the general FOSDEM staff and volunteers. By confirming your attendance you agree to have your talk recorded and posted.


MARKETING:
----------
Tell everybody to come to FOSDEM and see you talk! We want to see all 200+ seats filled all day! You're a very important part of FOSDEM, and can be a big help to get others excited about the conference.

Here are some things you can do to help with getting the word out on your talk once we've published the schedule:

Post to identi.ca/Twitter/Google+/Other Social Media:
It would be best to publish an announcement right when the schedule is published ("Yay! I'm speaking in the Testing/Automation devroom at #FOSDEM! ") and about a week before FOSDEM. Extra credit for posting about other people's talks that you want to
see too :)

Blog about it:
I'm sure most of you have blogs, write up a blog post introducing your talk, FOSDEM, and the devroom itself.

Let your open source community know!
Send an email to the developers/users mailing lists for the open source project that's related to your talk and let them know you'll be speaking at FOSDEM on the subject! Obviously, if such communications are not traditional in your community, you may not wish to send these sorts of communications. You know what your community norms are much better than we do. :)

If you need help proof-reading a blog post or an email, or have links for us to share, please ask me, or on the mailing list once it is created. We can definitely help.


SOME UNSOLICITED ADVICE:
------------------------
Here's some excellent advice on preparing for your presentation.

  * Do not wait until your plane/train ride to create your presentation.
    Firstly, everybody in the audience can tell, but more importantly, it does
    the subject matter a disservice and usually ends up poorly communicating
    the content.

  * Font size matters. I would estimate that for the size of the room, if the
    fonts in your slides are less than 1/8th-1/10th the height of the
slide, they
    will be difficult for everybody to see. Please keep this in mind when
    creating content.

 * Rehearse. Please, please please, rehearse your presentation. If you intend
    to fit in the allotted time slot, you *MUST* rehearse your presentation!
    We are sure you can speak very well on the subject matter, but improvising
    your words will result in a lot of "umms" and "uhhhs" that make you
    presentation difficult to follow. When I've rehearsed presentations,
    without fail I've gone back and changed/rearranged my slides to make sure
    the flow of the lecture is going the way I want it to. I guarantee you will
    find things you forgot about, or could explain better when you rehearse!

  * Slow down.
    Most people tend to speak faster under pressure during a presentation, keep
    this in mind when you're timing your rehearsals. FOSDEM is a multicultural
    event where English is not the 1st (or 2nd!) language of many attendees.
    Speaking more slowly will help the audience follow your
presentation (and help
    you relax).

  * Have fun and be comfortable! This is FOSDEM, we are your peers, the most
    important part of your presentation is *YOU*. If you're comfortable and
    passionate about the subject, that makes any presentation enjoyable for the
    audience.


We will be publishing the schedule on the fosdem.org website over the next few days.

If you have any questions, feel free to ask me directly.

Can't wait to meet you all and have a great time in Brussels!



Cheers,

LH on behalf of the Open Source Search Dev Room Program Committee*

* Boaz Leskes, Isabel Drost-Fromm, Leslie Hawthorn, Ted Dunning, Torsten Curdt, Uwe Schindler
